# Prediction-of-Dublin-Bike-Sharing-System
Major Project
Abstract
Bike sharing systems are rapidly being introduced in European cities for daily mobility leading to sustainable transportation. These systems add to city’s public transport system providing fast and easy services to the public. The bike sharing is increasing dramatically due to its unique feature of being convenient, low-cost and environmentally friendly, giving rise to problems to both users and operators. Amongst the European countries, Dublin city is considered in this thesis for the study and research. In this city, there are two types of bikes sharing systems, docked and dockless bike sharing systems. Dockless are newly being introduced but docked bikes are increasing tremendously since few years. In docked based bike sharing system, the bikes are rented by user by signing up to the services, checking out and returning the bike at the dock. When the user signs up and checks out, the basic information such as user’s information, station check-in, check-out, bike usage duration and many more is stored.
Nowadays, the primary issue of bike sharing is the uneven distribution of bicycles caused by the ever-changing usage and supply. The uneven distribution of bikes can be due to station area, timing, population, weather, events and many more. These external factors affect the availability of the bikes and gives rise to necessary efficient model for prediction of bike’s availability. Efficient prediction model will help in future prediction of availability of bikes with respect to the factors helping the users to use the bikes also, guiding the operators for redistribution of bikes accordingly.
This thesis aims at art of bike sharing systems in Dublin city proposing spatio-temporal bike mobility prediction model based on historical bike sharing data and real data on a per - station with sub-hour granularity. With the time series multivariate prediction model, advancement in re-balancing of bikes could be seen paving the way for rapid deployment and adoption of bike sharing system across the world. To analyse the bike, weather and event data and build the prediction model, deep learning models such as regression model and recurrent neural network model are studied and implemented. In particular, Autoregressive Integrated Moving Average model (ARIMA) and Long Short-Term Memory model (LSTM) have been implemented to predict the availability of the bikes at the given timestamp. The root mean square error is calculated and depicted on trend curve deviation graph for both the models where LSTM proves to work best with defined large series data whereas ARIMA shows best results with comparatively less series data.
